
http://www.mdtheatreguide.com/2012/07/bpf-review-hired-gun-at-theatrical-mining-company/

If you’re a Baltimore theater person, you should go see Load Of Fun Theater’s current production of Hired Gun, produced by Theatrical Mining Company, part of this year’s Baltimore Playwrights Festival.  For several reasons.  The first is that it’s really good.  More on that in a bit.  But also, it’s important to support our own, and the Festival is about as local as it gets.  For thirty-one years, the BPF has nurtured local talent and given them a chance to see their scripts come alive, as well as given directors, actors, stage managers, designers, etc. to work with material no one has ever worked with before.  As an actor who has done two Festival productions, I can tell you that’s a real thrill.

Now, back to the “it’s really good” part.  The play is written by Mark Scharf, and it is one of the most tightly-written we’ve seen from this fixture in the Baltimore theater scene.  It’s the story of Dewitt (last name isn’t in the program and I don’t remember it), a has-been rock star who is planning a comeback, although he says that’s not what it is because he’s never been gone.  He’s “the King,… the Fat Man of Rock ’n Roll.”  Dewitt hears a young guitar player whom he believes has the best left hand he’s ever heard.  He’s got to have this boy play for his upcoming release.  He is the only one who make this project work.  Yes, Dewitt is dangerously fixated.  The boy, Jesse, agrees to play for him, but Dewitt is never satisfied with the tracks he lays down.  Dewitt’s third or fourth wife, Sherri, tries desperately to keep him focused while keeping Jesse safe.  Then there’s the best friend/crony, Red.  In high school, he saved Dewitt from having his hair cut off by beating up the entire gang who had him cornered.  Dewitt has kept him by his side ever since then and Red has made no move to break away.


The production has one of the best openings I’ve ever seen.  It’s two second-long tableaux of Dewitt soaking in the accolades of an adoring crowd.  It wouldn’t work if Charlie Danforth’s lighting wasn’t perfect, and let’s acknowledge Kenyon Parson, too, who actually works the controls.  And Dewitt is perfect and the direction by Stacy Bonds is crisp and clean, so in two seconds, we’re drawn completely drawn in.

Another Baltimore theater scene fixture (this production has several), Rodney Bonds, plays Dewitt.  He’s does a wonderful job, even if he is a bit svelte for someone called the Fat Man.  He’s got a belly, but not much more than your average middle-aged man.  It works, though, because Mr. Bond captures the attitude of Dewitt perfectly.  And as the play proceeds, he allows Dewitt to slip further and further away from reason and sanity.

The play is written by Mark Scharf, and it is one of the most tightly-written we’ve seen from this fixture in the Baltimore theater scene.

Red is a difficult role to play.  There has to be more to him than the faithful sidekick, but the actor is more or less on his own with that.  Mike Ware (told ya) does a good job of it.  You can believe that he has no life outside of his idol, who is devoted to him because of that high school “rescue.”  Now, the diction was not good most of the time, so I may have this wrong.  Maybe Red saved Dewitt’s life, not just his hair.

The play opens – after the tableaux – with Jesse arriving at Dewitt’s home and Sherri doing everything she can to get him to leave.  She doesn’t warn him or anything.  She is controlled and snide, but clearly wants him gone.  The first thought is she’s jealous.  We come to see, though, that she already knows this is going to end badly and just wants to protect the boy, and probably her husband, too.

Jesse starts out telling Sherri he is not interested in putting his own blossoming career on hold, so she is surprised when he accepts the job.  But hey, playing with a legend looks good on a resume.  Trouble is, Jesse outshines the legend at their first live performance.  Later, when he put down tracks “good enough” for Dewitt, Dewitt will not allow him to even rest – literally – until he gets what he wants from him.

Maybe Jesse truly is not up to his normal standards.  But maybe Dewitt is terrified that his resurgence won’t work and this is his way of making sure it never actually happens.  Or maybe he’s got an unreal expectation.  We never know for sure.

Now, Sherri is the sister of the late great Matt (Somebody) who died when he crashed his car  while driving drunk.  He was connected to Dewitt somehow, but whether I lost it in the poor diction or it’s a hole in the script, neither I nor my companion knew what the connection was.  We do know that Sherri blames her brother’s decent into the bottle on Dewitt.  Which kind of colors her decision to marry this old man, doncha think?

Sarah Eberhardt as Sherri stepped into the role only two weeks ago, but she’s the stand-out performer from the start.  She’s entirely believable as the cynical, maybe even a little bitter, young wife of a legend-turned-burnt-out-drunk. You know she can control him, and you can easily see her shaking her head and dragging Dewitt off bed when he drinks himself into a stupor, which  he does regularly.  That she is unable to influence his behavior as the play progresses is part of what’s scary about it.  Ms. Eberhardt was a little shaky on lines from time to time when I saw it, but the character was fully there, and she’ll probably be letter perfect by the time you see it.

Director Stacey Bonds (Rodney’s daughter-in-law) does a great job of capturing the frustration and futility of the play.  Along with set designer Bush Greenbeck, she creates a claustrophobic feel, like none of them are ever going to get out.  Staging a rock concert on this tiny stage should be problematic, but she handled it beautifully.  There were things missed, though.  For instance, a climactic scene between Sherri and Jesse lacked the poignance it should have had.  But overall, the direction was very good.

Running time: 90 minutes with one intermission

The Theatrical Mining Company’s production of Hired Gun plays through July 28, Thurs–Sats @ 8; Sun @ 2, at Load Of Fun Theater, 120 W. North Ave., Baltimore, 21201  Note: The door is not where the sign is, and the theater is very warm.  For tickets, order online.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

http://baltimore.broadwayworld.com/article/BWW-Reviews-With-a-Bullet-HIRED-GUN-20120716

By Mark Squirek
The poster for Hired Gun pulls a line from Mark Scharf’s deliberately melodramatic meditation on aging, Fender Guitars, delusions, the music business and marriage. “Rock and Roll has never been kind to its old men” declares former rockabilly star Dewitt (Rodney Bonds) near the end of the play. In his case, that is absolutely true. To this I can only add a famous rock lyric that sums up what has become of Dewitt’s life, “…there’s no success like failure, and failure’s no success at all.”
Each and every one of us wants something back. Maybe it’s money, maybe it’s someone we loved, maybe’s its youth, maybe it’s a cat that ran away. For ninety-nine percent of us what we have lost is a shared experience. We can relate to each other’s loss.
To have lost the fame and adoration that Dewitt once knew is unusual. It is not a something that we can easily relate to for as much as we may have dreamed of that fame, it is still out of our reach. Not many of us have stood on stage as thousands screamed our name, reached out to touch us for salvation or stopped us in the grocery store while we were feeling a melon for freshness to ask for our autograph or a picture.
Boy oh boy, does Dewitt want his fame back. To help him get it he hires the best guitarist he has ever heard, a studio cat who is getting ready to release his own album and tour with his own band for the first time. This is young Jesse (Tucker Foltz). Dewitt’s idea is that, with Jesse’s stunning guitar skills, he will be able to find a record company for his next album by bringing in this hotshot to grace his new songs. Once that happens, Dewitt’s fame is sure to return.
Thin, perfectly dressed, charming and supremely confident, Jesse is everything that Dewitt ever used to be. Even Dewitt’s wife Sherri (Sarah Eberhardt), the sultry, Cheshire-smiling embodiment of the wife who is smarter than all the men around her, is taken by the young man. Unfortunately, this poor woman is surrounded by her obsessed husband, a man who has installed cameras throughout his own house, as well as his cracker-brain thug of a lifetime friend, Red (Mike Ware).
The play opens with a quick spotlight shot of Dewitt in his glory, leather jacket, half-gloves and too-tight rock pants, his arms outstretched in victory. Almost forty years later he is now deeply ensconced in his house and studio deep in the swampland of Louisiana. A portrait of his once young and glorious self sits over his fireplace.
While he has almost everything a man could want, including enough money to drink every day, a wife who tolerates him and a friend to tell him he is right no matter how stupid his ideas are, he wants his youth back. He is bleeding for the fame he once knew. He is starving for the adoration of the crowds, for the vindication of his life that all his success doesn’t seem to give him.
 
In lesser hands the characters that Scharf has created for Hired Gun could easily become exaggerations of familiar clichés. Even dressed up in guitars and rock and roll, we have seen this before: overwrought, out of control, scene-chewing backwoods folks being visited by a know-it-all Yankee who eventually teach the know-it-all something he didn’t know. In Scharf’s hands the lesson learned is not what we expect. In fact it is very painful, emotionally, mentally and physically.
The playwright gives each of the four roles (and the audience) something much deeper to consider, something bigger than the life they appear to be living. There are spaces he gives the actors that a lesser writer would have filled with needless chatter. Each of the four actors takes full advantage of the leeway he has given them in his tight and very well-constructed script and, with the help of Stacy Bond’s near perfect direction, not once do they ever slip into cliché.
When Dewitt’s wife Sherri meets Jesse for the first time. she asks him if he wants a drink. “You look like vodka to me, colorless.” It would be easy to soak in the laughter that follows such a line, but Eberhardt beautifully glides over to the bar as if the line was part of her everyday life. She smiles at her ability to confuse the young man, but she also knows that she is playing a game and there is no need to revel in each score. There will be plenty down the line.
This is a marvelously mature and very sensual performance as she keeps Jesse at arm’s length while eventually finding something new about herself. Eberhardt’s growth inside the character is real and as she grows we silently hope she will make the right decisions. This is beautiful work from a skilled actor.
Her contempt for Dewitt’s hillbilly friend, Red is palpable and very real. And believe me, we share that contempt as we watch the two muscle each other for Dewitt’s attention. Ware could have played this character near wild, a man filled with hoops and hollers, but instead his menace is real. It is colliding inside him, and he is going to love it when he gets to release it. He moves slowly across the stage with the smug confidence of a man who is too stupid to know he is stupid. In short, he is a bully and could care less about anyone but himself and Dewitt. Ware is note- perfect in the part.
The Hired Gun in the title is Jesse. Dewitt needs his guitar sound, he craves the success that Jesse has achieved. He wants to give Jesse some of his star power, a power near gone, while at the same time pulling the inexhaustible energy of Jesse’s youth into his own life. Foltz can be a bit anxious inside the role and while, on occasion, you can see him thinking, the minute he becomes comfortable, the scenes flow.
When Sherri flirts with him, his nervousness at the approach of his new boss’s wife is youth incarnate as he fails to see she is simply flirting. His exchanges with Dewitt are sharp and punctuated by the very real impatience of youth. When Dewitt becomes near-patronizing, Foltz recoils appropriately disgusted with the old man’s insinuations. In the end it is his hero worship for Dewitt as well as the legend of Dewitt’s long dead guitar player that keeps inside the compound and Foltz makes us believe that.
None of this works without a strong Dewitt at the center. As Dewitt, Rodney Bonds never flinches once. He delivers on every level. When he smiles in the early hours of the play, you know he is caging the life force from a naïve kid. In his smile we can easily read his intentions without a word passing his lips. Without moving a muscle, Bonds makes us believe that people once screamed for Dewitt the way they screamed for Elvis or Roy Orbison.
When shown in concert, Bonds fervently believes the spirituality of the occasion, he is feeding off the crowd and firmly believes that he is feeding them in return. As he works the crowd Bonds is so deeply lost inside that faith, the idea of redemption, the promise of rock and roll, that we willingly follow Dewitt right into the delusions he is eating for every meal.
When Jesse says he wants to “test the waters” with Dewitt’s musical ideas, Dewitt tells him that “Hell, boy, I can part the waters.” And as convincing as Bonds makes the declaration, we firmly believe he can. Bonds makes us believe Dewitt’s faded stardom, he was a star. We know it and thanks to Bonds' skill, we respect it.
First-time director Stacy Bonds (Rodney’s daughter-in-law) has given the cast plenty of room to move, but firmly holds them in from going too far overboard. It is a deft balancing act that deserves attention. When the aforementioned concert scene takes place she keeps it is partial profile, which allows us to never leave the reality of the play. It is an interesting choice in dynamics and a very smart one.
Her decisions in the area of tech work along the same lines, she keeps everything moving in service of the script. Lighting Designer Charlie Danforth delivers as never once are you aware that something has shifted on stage; you glide along with the playwright’s words. Following the example of his director, he stays with the story. and the actors hit every rise and fall and fade.
In the hands of someone less restrained, less skilled than Director Stacy Bonds, Hired Gun might have gone that way. And there are moments where Scharf’s script may have called for bigger reactions form the cast. Choosing to anchor the play in the cold, hard realities of human behavior found inside Scharf’s work, Director Bonds and Scharf never once let Hired Gun leave reality.
In the end of it all, it is Scharf who really delivers. He veers close to cliché, but his years of experience and his innate skill keep him from driving the car off the cliff (even though a few pebbles may fall into the canyon!). In his own Playwright notes he recognizes the melodramatic writing inside the script.
Scharf asks us to look at our own hypocrisy, our natural ability to make excuses for our failures while at the same time not once asking us to pass judgment on Dewitt. He leaves the final thought in our minds, ultimately asking us to look at the excuses we make for our own behavior and how that behavior, good or bad, can affect others. Which is why Hired Gun works so well; Scharf tells a story, then allows us to decide what is really right or wrong.
Hired Gun is a great example of the best that the Baltimore Playwrights Festival can deliver. It is the perfect embodiment of what the organization reaches for with every show, a unified effort working together towards bringing a playwright’s lines to life. There is a mixture of the experienced, the not-so experienced and one or two first-timers creating something exciting and new for a Baltimore audience. It is also a highlight in the career of Theatrical Mining Company who, since 2006, have been concentrating on presenting Baltimore Playwrights in the best light possible.
Hired Gun continues its run at the Loads of Fun Theatre, presented by the Theatrical Mining Company, 120 W. North Avenue, Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays, at 8 p.m. through July 28th with 2 p.m. shows July 22nd and 29th.
 
ABOUT MARK SQUIREK: A graduate of UMBC as well as The Players Workshop of Second City, Squirek has acted in, directed or written numerous plays over the last 25 years. In 2006 Broadway World named him Playwright of the Year for his one act SOD. He has worked at theaters in New York, Chicago, Baltimore and Washington D.C. For two years (2007-2009) he was on the Board at Mobtown. His first novel, Sherlock Holmes and the Society of the Diamond Tattoo, is scheduled to be published by Pro-Se Press in July.


---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

http://www.baltimoresun.com/explore/howard/events-entertainment/ph-ho-go-hired-gun-0719-20120713,0,6585350.story

By Mike Giuliano
July 13, 2012 | 5:29 p.m.
When an aging rock star holds a drink more often than he picks up his guitar, he's clearly suffering from a career hangover in Mark Scharf's "Hired Gun." Although this Baltimore Playwrights Festival entry tends to be as thematically loud as that hard-drinking rocker, the play skillfully develops the escalating tension between the veteran star and a young session musician hired to perform on an intended comeback album.
This Theatrical Mining Company production directed by Stacey Bonds keeps a pretty tight focus on that precarious professional relationship. The minimal set design, for instance, makes us feel trapped within the rock star's oppressively confining home, where the musical arguments flow as freely as the booze.
The set largely consists of a rec room anchored by a much-frequented bar; and an area near the back of the stage that's used as the star's home recording studio, with its walls containing the gold records that attest to his stature back in the day.
This spare setting emotionally works to advantage, because the star lives in a surveillance camera-equipped rural compound in Louisiana that forcefully conveys his sense of isolation and paranoia.

Rodney Bonds is suitably grizzled and gruff as Dewitt, a rock star who has withdrawn into the southern woods that originally nurtured his blues-based rock music. The play takes place in 1994, so he's presumably a member of the generation that put southern rock on the national musical landscape in the 1950s and '60s.
Recorded music played between scenes reinforces the rock music historical context for "Hired Gun," but it's awkward that no music is actually played or sung by any of the characters. Although it's understandable that the actors aren't called upon to demonstrate professional musical skills, it feels weird to have them holding guitars that they never play. It's also mildly disappointing that this otherwise chatty play does not have its characters discussing musical influences and methods in any kind of detail.
If "Hired Gun" does not fully explore the musical material, it may be because it's so zestfully exploring the musical melodrama exploding like an angry guitar riff. This well-written play knows how to set up a confrontational situation that's destined to end up with a guitar being wielded as, er, a battle ax.
Dewitt lives in semi-retirement with a much younger wife, Sherri, who is vividly portrayed by Sarah Eberhardt. Sherri mostly lounges on the sofa, where she dispenses sassy commentary. She's borderline-rude, but there's no denying that most of her tart observations contain an alcoholic grain of truth.
Sharing this claustrophobic, windowless house is the aptly named Red (Mike Ware), who functions as Dewitt's personal assistant, longtime roadie and foul-mouthed friend. Such prejudice-infested redneck characters obviously exist in our imperfect world, but the scripting verges on being cartoonish here. It doesn't help that Ware's deep-fried southern accent sometimes seems to wander as far north as New England.
As for the title character, Jesse (Tucker Foltz) is a gifted young guitarist who idolizes Dewitt and initially welcomes this opportunity to work with him; however, he's an ambitious sideman looking to make a name for himself, and he also quickly surmises that he's ventured into a musically hostile environment. Foltz's ardent performance fortunately is not at the expense of bringing out the character's more subtle and conflicted traits.
By the time Jesse endures an all-night recording session, you'll worry whether he'll make it out of there with his integrity intact. As guitar gods go, Dewitt can be merciless.
