
Sick Stories Bios

Dionne Johnson (Mabelle)
Dionne is making her debut with the Theatrical Mining Company in Sick Stories, Gentle Granddaddy. But she has graced the stage at Fells Point Corner Theatre in Ruined and at the Arena Players Stage in Day of Absence. She plans on pursuing a career in acting and would like to thank her family, friends and cast mates for all of their love and support. 

Zinhle "Zizu" Zungu (Young Queen)
Zinhle "Zizu" Zungu is a South african born actor. She discovered her love for acting
at the age of 4 while watching Barney and friends. She has since been in school and local productions 
in South Africa. She came to America two years ago to further her acting and has been undergoing training
 at The Arena players, she has also been in local productions such as "The visitor" with Browns memorial
baptist Church and ''Him" with OTR productions and she is part of her church Drama ministries team
at Excell Ministries International. She also loves to dance and draw.She looks forward to more
 dramatic Opportunities and a bright future in the acting business. 

Morgan Mosely (Benjamin)
Morgan Mosley is a Baltimore native, whose credits include Blood Bound & Tongue-Tied and Strike Heaven on the Face. This is his third time performing in Sick Stories, Gentle Granddaddy. He is grateful to Shelby and Tyrone Chapman for the opportunity of performing in the play again.

BIO

S. Ann Johnson is a professional writer and editor born and raised in Baltimore, Maryland. She holds a BA in journalism from Penn State University and a MS in professional writing from Towson University. By day, she is a web producer for WJZ-TV/CBSBaltimore.com. By night, she is a performing artist. She most recently starred in her first musical: The Bubbly Black Girl Sheds Her Chameleon Skin at Strand Theater Company, where she is a board member. Sick Stories, Gentle Granddaddy is her second penned play. Her first: The XX Chromosome Genome Project, a multicultural choreopoem that will be featured in Artscape 2013 on July 19 at the Baltimore Theater Project.

SYNOPSIS


Little Miss Mabelle would describe her maternal grandfather as a sweet, old man who makes her laugh and spoils her rotten. So the Sick Stories her family members share about him must be figments of their imagination, right? Wrong. In Sick Stories, Gentle Granddaddy, the drunken past conflicts with the docile present of a husband, father--and Gentle Granddaddy.

Shernā ("sher-nae") Johnson
Byline: S. Ann Johnson

William Walker (Herbert) William began his acting career at the age 5 and he has enjoyed performing in show around the USA and in Europe. William says, “He looks forward to many, more years on stage.” His most recent performances include “GLENGARY GLEN ROSS”, “SUPERIOR DONUTS” and “RUINED”. William has also had the opportunity to be a part of the silver screen in “THE LAST KUNG FU MONK“ released to DVD October 1, 2010, HEAD OF STATE”, and “THE WEDDING CRASHERS”. If you watch closely you can find him in the bar having a drink in HBO’s “THE WIRE”

Kevin Baker (Junior)

Kevin D. Baker is thrilled to be making his College of Notre Dame debut in "Sick Stories Gentle Granddaddy."  

Born in Baltimore, MD and raised in Augusta, GA, Kevin loves the character work of acting and is following up from roles as 'Mputa' in "Hammarskjold" (2010,) as 'Steve' in "Tea and Sympathy" (2011,) at Spotlighters Theater, and 'Simon' in "Ruined" (2012) at Fells Point Corner Theater, and 'Dr, Andrews' in "Killing Time" at Arena Players (2012) .  

Kevin has several years of improv experience and a love for the opera, having been a part of productions for the Baltimore Opera Company, Opera Vivente, and most recently, Lyric Baltimore.  His on camera experience includes work in television, film, and commercials. He would like to thank the entire cast, crew, and writer for this play as well as everyone from his acting journey!!!


Shelby Chapman is a Baltimore native who enjoys the arts. She loves being behind the scenes doing stage tech and managing. This is her first time directing and she was excited throughout the whole experience. She says that directing this play has helped her find her passion. She will be re-attending school soon to pursue a career in the arts. She would like to thank her family and the entire cast for making this such an enjoyable experience for her! 

Don Murray (Granddaddy)
Don Murray is a native of Baltimore and a writer of short stories and poems. He was introduced to acting by Rain Pryor, the director of the play "Exonerated." Since then, he has performed in "Mixer 2" and "Staggie's Ballad A Love Song", which is a dance with Reggie Coles of Edgeworks Dance Theater. Don played Fudge in the first performance of "Sick Stories, Gentle Grandaddy." He enjoys poetry and story readings when not working with the children at the Kennedy Krieger Institute. 

Archie Williams (Fudge)

Archie D. Williams Jr is a native Baltimorean who has been involved with stage and film for at least three decades. He has worked with HBO, NBC, CBS, ABC and Netflix. He has also worked locally with the Arena Players, Spotlighters, Vagabond Theater, Heralds of Hope Theatre and Fells Point Corner Theater. Recently, Archie has included writing and directing to his resume'. He enjoys his craft and hopes that you will enjoy this play.  

Loren Bray's bio

A graduate of Howard University with a BFA in musical theatre, Loren has pursued acting since the age of twelve. She was most recently seen in The American Century Theatre's production of J.B., as well as several shows with the Capital Fringe Festival. Loren wishes to thank the cast and crew for all their hard work, her family and friends for their continued support and Shelby and Tyrone for this experience.


