by Amy Geller, Ken's mom

At age 18, Ken Greller, Park School graduate, has had four plays produced, and NYU's Tish School of the Arts awaits his arrival this month.  Ken Greller's work is both captivating and exemplary of what captivates the young playwright's ear and mind.

J. Wynn Rousuck of WYPR said of Greller's Comfort, produced by Run of the Mill Theater for Variations On Power, "The imbalance of power in a marriage (is examined) in a strikingly impressive debut work by Ken Greller.  Young Mr. Greller writes about spousal relationships in a way that demonstrates a keen ear for naturalistic dialogue", and likened Greller's keen ear to Dramaturg, playwright, author, Yale and Swarthmore professor James Magruder, whose play, Pissing Match, was also in Variations.  

Renowned playwright and former director of Run of the Mill Theater, Barbara Bryan, notes:  "Greller is the youngest playwright we have ever produced.  He already has a distinctive voice and a wonderful sense of theatricality in his writing.  Ken lives and breathes theater, and his personal theater library (extensive) matches mine in scope, which I found astounding for someone his age.  He has studied scores of playwrights on his own . . . We jokingly (and with admiration) call him 'the young Edward Albee'!  His maturity as a playwright is frankly amazing."   

Theatrical Mining Compoany, in conjunction with the 25th Annual Baltimore Playwrights Festival, premiers This Is Why We Can't Have Nice Things.  Additionally, Ms. Bryan and Mr. Barry Feinstein, Director, Theatrical Mining company, dually note that many folks in the theater industry are "very fond of Ken".  Playwright Joe Dennison called Ken Greller "the next Mamet".  Mr. Greller just returned from The Kennedy Center Playwriting Intensive with Gary Garrison, Marsha Norman, and Theresa Rebeck.  He was also participant in NTI Theatermakers at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre Center, where fellow participant called Ken Greller "a national treausre", and Barbara Bryan alerted NTI Theatermakers that young playwright Ken Greller is "one in a million".  Ken will be a freshman at NYU's Tisch School of the Arts in Dramatic Writing.  Ken's first day of college is the last day of his current production in Baltimore.  

When you want things a certain way, you don't see things the way they are.  This Is Why We Can't Have Nice Things is a heightened memory play; a humorous power struggle between two best friends and their respective lovers.  Their individual obsession with desire and control creats unintended consequences that change their relationships forever.  Is becoming an adult worth losing a friend?  This Is Why We Can't Have Nice Things by Ken Greller; directed by Peter Davis.


